Amazon RDS multi-az deployment: sync replication - at least two AZ within a single region.
Amazon RDS read replicas: async replicastion - can be within an AZ, cross AZ or cross-region


Backup and Restore: cheap, high RPO and RTO
Pilot High: small version of app is always running in cloud, faster
Warm Standby: full system is up and running but at min size. Upon disaster we can scale to production load


Hot Site / Multi Site Approach: minutes or seconds, very expensive. Full production scale is running AWS and on prem


Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA): improved ENA for HPC only for Linux


Compute and Networking:
EC2: CPU and GPU optimized. Spot instances/Spot fleets for cost savings + auto scaling 
EC2 Placement Group: Cluster for good network performance. Same AZ, low latency, 10Gbps network 
EC2 Enhanced networking: (SR-IOV): higher bandwidth, higher packet per second, PPS, lower latency
-Option 1: Elastic Network Adapter (ENA) up to 100 Gbps
-Option 2: Intel 82599 VF to 10 Gbps - Legacy
Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA): improved ENA for HPC only for Linux


AWS Fargate: Amazon’s own Serverless container platform →works with ECS and EKS


Cognito: give users identity to interact with web or mobile apps
User Pools: sign in for app users -serverless DB of users for web &mobile apps
Identity Pools: temp AWS credentials to access AWS resources



Transit Gateway 
-Transitvíve peering between many VPCs and on prem, hub and spoke (star) connections

REAL-TIME = KENESIS

You put cloudfront infront of the s3 - static info etc

DynamoDB is fully-managed service (serverless as well) which makes it easy to deploy unlike Aura (which is also serverless). On the docs it says Auroradb is fully managed but you need to deploy it yourself.

High Performance Computing scenario for ec2 instances -> cluster 

high io storage for ec2 - instance store

Amazon DynamoDB is not relational
Amazon Aurora is Relational

Amazon GuardDuty is a fully managed, intelligent threat detection service that continuously monitors AWS accounts, workloads, and data for malicious activity. 
Amazon Inspector is an automated vulnerability management service on AWS that continuously scans your EC2 instances, container images (in ECR), Lambda functions, and code repositories for software vulnerabilities and unintentional network exposure, providing prioritized security findings to help you improve your security posture.

Spot instances - DELAY

cloudfront does not have native built-in cognito integration. 